---
author: admin
date: '2010-04-19 09:01:08'
layout: post
slug: python-for-bioinformatics-by-sebastian-bassi-a-review
status: publish
title: 'Python for Bioinformatics by Sebastian Bassi: a (short) review'
wordpress_id: '366'
? ''
: - book
  - review
  - Uncategorized
---

I promised some time ago to post a complete review of [Python for
Bioinformatics (Chapman & Hall/CRC Mathematical & Computational
Biology)](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1584889292?ie=UTF8&tag=genedrift-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1584889292)![image](http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=genedrift-20&l=as2&o=1&a=1584889292)
by Sebastian Bassi. It's long overdue, but the delay allowed me to get
more acquainted to the book and its contents. I can only say that I
highly recommend this book, especially for the biologist that is
beginning in bioinformatics or python (or both). I cannot compare it to
any other Python and Bioinformatics books (I'm planning to buy the
another one), but I can say that I could learn a thing or two from
Sebastian's book. Evidently is not a perfect book, as some of the
explanations are a little bit rushed and might be difficult for a
beginner. At the same time this is a very carefully thought and planned
book and has more than enough for one to learn Python and apply the
language to solve biological problems. I really liked the BioPython
section, and this section made me use BioPython for the first time. Some
of BioPython's examples in the book are light years ahead of the
examples in the tool's website. Lastly, I would like to congratulate
Sebastian for his work and effort in putting together a nice tome for
Python and Bioinformatics. It's a valuable resource for everyone in the
field and certainly will help spread Python in the community.
