---
author: admin
date: '2007-10-18 08:10:59'
layout: post
slug: off-topic
status: publish
title: Off topic
wordpress_id: '64'
? ''
: - off topic
---

Mr Daniel Swan accused me of not publishing his
[comment](http://eridanus.net/blog/?p=233#respond) or reply to his
comments. I have never seen his reply, either in the comments or as an
email to me, so to fulfill his desires it is published here.

> I admit that some of the things you have addressed in the past, whilst
> ‘reinventing’ the wheel, offer important insights into the general
> problems of programming in general - this particular example was not
> one of them. From following the course which I assume was outlined by
> ‘Beginning Perl for Bioinformatics’ (which I do not think is a good
> reference for beginning Perl at all) a user should already be able to
> perform the following operations - open a file, iterate over and parse
> the contents, open a file for writing, and apply some rules for
> formatting the output. Thus you have already given them the tools to
> complete the operation should they wish to do so in a Python context.
> The problem is that you are trying to educate potentially early
> career/transitional bioinformaticians here - and showing them how to
> complete tasks in X lines of Python when there is a single command
> line application to do the trick I think is disingenuous. We wouldn’t
> dream, for instance, of educating our MRes students in this way. I
> also would take issue that diversity is a key. You can be as diverse
> as you like but no-one is seriously going to suggest that you write
> your next script to parse something out of a GenBank file in
> assembler. One of the hallmarks of any computer professional in any
> field is the ability to use the right tool for the job. You should be
> technology agnostic and be prepared to string together applications or
> scripts from anywhere to reach your goal - take a look at something
> like Taverna for instance. I notice in the other post that you mention
> there is a high proportion of Windows users to this site and therefore
> command line \*nix comments are of no interest. Although I know a
> number of bioinformaticians who use Windows (generally to integrate
> with an institutions existing Microsoft heavy infrastructure) they all
> have logins to dozens of \*nix machines, run \*nix in a VM or at the
> very least have a Cygwin installation with which to work with. Basing
> the availability of technology on the OS of your page imprints is not
> necessarily indicative. I hope you don’t mind me addressing these
> points here rather in my blog, as my blog is personal (hence the lack
> of bioinformatics content on there). I have actually been following
> these tutorials for a while (as someone who came into Bioinformatics
> some time ago - my first forays in programming were in Perl) it is
> nice for me to see tasks that I find intuitive in one language written
> in another. Consequently the fact that I felt need to comment, merely
> suggests that I felt strongly on this issue, rather than having any
> negative feelings towards what you are trying to achieve.

I am sorry for the usual readers of this tutorial, for posting his
comments as an article here. We will be back to our uneducated, simple
and basic "tutorial for bioinformatics in X lines for the noobie in
Windows" soon. Thanks Daniel.
