---
author: admin
date: '2007-09-07 15:51:43'
layout: post
slug: planning
status: publish
title: Planning
wordpress_id: '50'
? ''
: - Section 6
---

Another aspect covered in the book that we haven't seen yet is how to
plan, design out script or software. Usual ways to design a program
include writing use cases and drawing
[UML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Modeling_Language) diagrams
(stands for Unified Modelling Language). Here we will scratch the
surface of [use cases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_case), where we
will try to determine how the program will interact with the user. How
to write use cases or design UML is not a subject taught in many biology
courses, so we won;t see much of the theory here. Consider this a more
informal way of planning a small script or application. 

First thing
would be to set a goal: 

*What is the main objective of our script?*


Create a simple restriction enzyme map of certain sequences Next, *what
do we need to make the program work?* We need restriction enzyme
information, such as names and sites and a sequence. That leads us *How
do I store information?* Restriction enzyme data (last entry) obtained
from a file can be stored in a dictionary, with the enzyme name as key
and the site as value. 

Sequences are stored using our fasta class. This
will brings us to one important issue *How to interact with the user?*
The ideal way would be to present a list of enzymes for the user to
select, but we do not have a graphical interface to organize it nicely.
So, we will ask the user to enter the name of enzyme and a name of a
file to read the sequence where the enzyme site should be found. We can
do that interactively or by passing parameters to the script. We will do
it by parameters here, but the interactive way can be tested as a
homework for those following the blog. 

And finally *What about an
output?* We will do the same way as the book: a list of positions,
indicating the restriction sites. I welcome other options in the
comments. It looks we have a plan. Let's gather what we already have,
and our previous knowledge and meet on the other side of this post.
