---
author: admin
date: '2009-02-06 11:08:03'
layout: post
slug: expert-python-programming-by-tarek-ziade-a-review-of-chapter-2
status: publish
title: Expert Python Programming by Tarek Ziad√© - a review of Chapter 2
wordpress_id: '235'
? ''
: - expert
  - expert python programming
  - off topic
---

[![Cover of "Beginning Perl for
Bioinformati...](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/41GpHIPgOlL._SL200_.jpg "Cover of "Beginning Perl for Bioinformati...")](http://www.amazon.com/Beginning-Perl-Bioinformatics-James-Tisdall/dp/0596000804?SubscriptionId=0G81C5DAZ03ZR9WH9X82&tag=zemanta-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=2025&creative=165953&creativeASIN=0596000804)
  ~ [Cover via
    Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Beginning-Perl-Bioinformatics-James-Tisdall/dp/0596000804?SubscriptionId=0G81C5DAZ03ZR9WH9X82&tag=zemanta-20&linkCode=xm2&camp=2025&creative=165953&creativeASIN=0596000804)

So we're up to the second chapter of Tarek's book. A short disclaimer
before diving into it. I started this blog, basically one year after I
had started programming with Python. The initial idea was to "convert"
the Beginning Perl for Bioinformatics book to Python and see what were
the advantages and disadvantages of both languages. I was far from being
a advanced Python programmer, and the inception of the blog helped me
getting close to that, even though I consider myself far from being an
expert programmer in Python. I learned a lot working on converting the
Perl and learned a lot from the comments and interaction with other
programmers and visitors of the blog. As anything in life one's path is
long and tortuous and there's nothing better than daily learning and
exercise. So, as I mentioned in the previous post, this book was
tailored for someone like me. I needed a boost on advanced Python
techniques and the second chapter just gave me that. Tarek writes in
this chapter about good syntax practices below the class level,
functions and methods that are common in daily usage. He starts with
list comprehensions, that we have seen in this site. It's a short and
concise section and gives you exactly what you need about this
functionality. Next, iterators and generators. I had a little bit of
background on iterators, and have used them here and there, but not a
lot on generators. I learned a bit from this section, what you expect
from a book like this, things like the `close` and `throw`. Although
this was good first step on generators, I wished the section could be
longer, but that maybe not the focus of the book. Coroutines was a
completely new subject for me. Maybe I haven't been diving into Python
as much as I needed to, but time is short these days and programming
Python is not the first objective of my work. The example is complete
and easy to understand, but again I wish it was a tad bit longer. Tarek
then explains a bit of generator expressions (list comprehension for
generators) and enters the itertools module. So far so good, it's a nice
summary (at least for me) of simple techniques that can be incorporated
into daily coding. And then ... Decorators. I blame on my poor CS skills
or maybe my whole background on programming, but I still cannot get
decorators. In my short-sighted view of the programming world I cannot
see a place, at least on the things I'm doing, where I can use a
decorator. And here comes the first criticism of the book: I still
cannot get after reading the section. One thing that would help a bit
would be to have colours on the examples and maybe go over them
explaining some code lines. But at the same time, I admit that this
might be a personal problem, where the concept of decorators don't fit
into my brain, and maybe the focus of the book is to show this advanced
technique to someone that has a better grasp of the concept. Overall,
it's a very good chapter and a good pointer to some expert/advanced
techniques in Python. Tomorrow, chapter 3, and we're a going to see
classes.

[![Reblog this post [with
Zemanta]](http://img.zemanta.com/reblog_e.png?x-id=2b86d192-b0ab-48fa-88ac-28aacbdf82e5)](http://reblog.zemanta.com/zemified/2b86d192-b0ab-48fa-88ac-28aacbdf82e5/ "Zemified by Zemanta")
