---
author: admin
date: '2009-03-13 14:25:38'
layout: post
slug: biopython-and-cvs
status: publish
title: BioPython and CVS
wordpress_id: '266'
? ''
: - biopython
  - CVS
  - off topic
  - python
  - SVN
---

[![Bazaar](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/c/c1/Bazaar_logo_(software_product).svg/125px-Bazaar_logo_(software_product).svg.png "Bazaar")](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Bazaar_logo_(software_product).svg)
  ~ Image via
    [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Bazaar_logo_(software_product).svg)

I start this post with an apology. I usually don't rant or vent here,
which are feelings that I usually reserve to my personal blog. I don't
use BioPython, never used it. I have it installed in my systems, but I
never wrote a piece of code importing BioPython routines. But I
subscribe to their mailing lists, both user and developer. I maybe have
written once to the list, and I just follow the discussions there. Since
last year one of the main topics has been the possibility of moving
BioPython from CVS to another version control system. Yes, you read it
right. It's 2009 and BioPython uses CVS and their version control
system. Soon, CVS will be like typewriters and LPs to young developers.
Last stable release of CVS was sometime in 2005, what in interwebs time
is equivalent to something like 1972. Since 2005, Subversion has taken
the world of version control by storm, and Git is getting also very
strong, not to mention Bazaar, Darcs, Mercurial and some others that I
might not be aware of. This is a discussion that have been dragging for
sometime in the list. And it's a shame, a clear lack of leadership from
whoever is (not) leading the project. BioRuby is Git, BioPerl SVN and
BioPython is CVS, because they "need to care for the legacy developers".
It's like MSFT keeping two copies of the Notepad executable because they
needed to cater to legacy applications, but with a different scale of
course. With the current Python steam in the non-bioinformatics and
bioinformatics community is very sad to see BioPython not evolving
(before you ask me, no, I'm not interested in helping, not the way
things are now). Perl which is language forever-in-waiting for its holy
grail (Perl 6) has a strong community behind it, and more important an
excellent leadership, that's not scare of making decisions. So, if
you're still using CVS, it's 2009!

[![Reblog this post [with
Zemanta]](http://img.zemanta.com/reblog_e.png?x-id=06117f0a-6d25-497d-b686-1a96e8a7d81c)](http://reblog.zemanta.com/zemified/06117f0a-6d25-497d-b686-1a96e8a7d81c/ "Zemified by Zemanta")
