---
author: admin
date: '2010-01-03 14:25:00'
layout: post
slug: preliminary-review-of-python-for-bioinformatics-by-sebastian-bassi
status: publish
title: Preliminary review of Python for Bioinformatics by Sebastian Bassi
wordpress_id: '339'
? ''
: - biopython
  - book
  - Phase 2
  - Programming
  - python
  - review
---

Let me start by saying that [Python for Bioinformatics (Chapman &
Hall/Crc Mathematical & Computational
Biology)](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1584889292?ie=UTF8&tag=genedrift-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1584889292)![image](http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=genedrift-20&l=as2&o=1&a=1584889292)
is a massive book, massive in a way that it contains a lot of material.
I still didn't have enough time to check everything, but I'm well into
the first section of the book that gives an initial view of Python and
how to program it. The initial section of the book is well written (I'm
not going criticize the book in terms of good/poor English, as I'm not
well qualified to do that), and gives a clear perspective on how to
program Python for scientists, who are the main target demographic of
the book. Of course, it always help to have some basic knowledge of
command line shells, but the book also includes some explanations of
IDLE and other Python-capable IDEs. I cannot say that I read this
section with the enough care and attention, but what I can say is that
you won't miss a beat with PfB, as it has more material than I expected.
I still have to start with the more advanced topics, like
[BioPython](http://biopython.org/ "Biopython") and so forth, what I plan
to do in the coming month, and as I don't have a lot of experience with
BioPython, I'm looking forward to it. On the other hand I have a
small-ish complaint, that maybe is more about style than substance. I
don't like the design of the book, the way the code interleaves with the
text and the way the code explanations are presented. Most of the code
blocks are followed by a careful explanation, but this explanation works
as a figure label for the code block. That is quite annoying because
there are too many stops in the text fluidity as one tends to lose
attention to it (my case, not exactly everyone's). Another minor detail
is the use of "he" every time scientists are referred (one example is on
page 3 on the second phrase of the introduction). The (politically)
correct would be to use "he or she" or "she or he" (but that's OK with
me). I will try to post more complete reviews of the sections that I
don't master. I would also like to thank Sebastian for sending me a copy
of the book.
[![Reblog this post [with
Zemanta]](http://img.zemanta.com/reblog_e.png?x-id=99930d7a-5cef-4e74-b46c-71e031c4d627)](http://reblog.zemanta.com/zemified/99930d7a-5cef-4e74-b46c-71e031c4d627/ "Reblog this post [with Zemanta]")
