---
author: admin
date: '2010-03-03 22:46:35'
layout: post
slug: python-testing-beginner%e2%80%99s-guide-review
status: publish
title: Python Testing Beginnerâ€™s Guide, review
wordpress_id: '351'
? ''
: - book
  - review
  - Uncategorized
---

I posted about a week ago that Packt Publishing had invited me to review
**[Python Testing Beginner's
Guide](http://www.packtpub.com/python-testing-beginners-guide/book/mid/240210aaphjg?utm_source=python.genedrift.org&utm_medium=bookrev&utm_content=blog&utm_campaign=mdb_002570)**
by Daniel Arbuckle. Having finished reading the book (I must admit that
I haven't tried all the code in it), I can say that I have an excellent
initial impression of the book. PTBG is not a long book and the topic is
divided in 10 chapters and one appendix. One of the first things that I
liked about the book is that there's no *introduction* (or something
similar) to Python. It just goes straight to the point assuming that you
have some good understanding of the language and everything that
surrounds it. In the past I was frustrated with some "Introduction to X
with Python" that wasted precious space talking over and over about a
topic, learning Python, better covered in many other books. PTBG does
not waste time and space introducing its main topic which is testing,
and in my opinion that's the best approach, even though it might look a
little bit abrupt by some. The language and text in the book is clear
and very pleasant. PTBG is a very well written book and I really enjoyed
its style. The first chapters of the book cover Python testing using
doctests. For someone like me that didn't write so many tests in the
normal software development workflow (I know I should write more tests),
this section seems like a really nice introduction to the topic, with
well thought real-life like examples and a good flow on the explanation
of the different features. One small complain that I have is that for a
beginner sometimes the code listed in the examples might seem a little
bit confusing, and maybe the addition of line numbers might have helped
a bit here. But at the same I understand that this is normal style of
some Packt books. After the doctests section, PTBG gets into more
advanced techniques, covering a little bit mock objects with
[Mocker](http://labix.org/mocker), then moving into unittest and
[nose](http://code.google.com/p/python-nose/). The latter is a Python
tool that allows for managing, running and automating tests. Also
covered is [Twill](%20http://pypi.python.org/pypi/%20twill/), another
third-party library that allows for testing of web applications. One
full chapter is devoted to test-driven development, with a complete
walkthrough of this approach. This gives a wrap-up of most of the
techniques and modules covered in the book, but there's still space for
another chapter that shows how beautifully doctests, unittest and nose
can be fully integrated and help the development of applications using
the test-driven approach. Overall, I really enjoyed PTBG. As I
mentioned, test driven development was never a high priority in the
application I usually developed with Python. But certainly this book can
be a good starting point for some Python test beginners to incorporate
these techniques in their usual development workflow. Scientific
software is also a perfect niche for this type of approach and we should
do what is possible in order to avoid the [nightmares of the
past](http://boscoh.com/protein/a-sign-a-flipped-structure-and-a-scientific-flameout-of-epic-proportions).
